
3) Model. Some kind of modeling or simulation engine itself. It's arguable that it may be worth simulating toy systems, like a small town in a watershed. There could be multiple separate simulations however. I am somewhat interested in modeling the material and product flows related to the Iran war. Perhaps this step has to happen after?


2) Whole systems Modeling. My deep primary interest is in bringing rigor to public discourse by simulating or modeling the interesection of land use law and policy. I feel like today our conversations about the future in the social media, in the press, in the halls of politics, are often based on hidden or ulterior personal benefits, rather than on a shared consensus understanding of the ecosystems we inhabit. We can't always have what we want, but if we have a shared understanding of long term benefits we may be more willing to make short term sacrifices. The war in Iran has provided fascinating fodder for modeling supply chains. Oil is just one example, other molecules such as fertilizers are also impacted by closures of the strait of hormuz. I'd love to first collect facts around these topics, and then try think about ways to build simulations or models of these systems as a whole, including predictive modeling. Again twitter is a good resource here. The first step for this kind of analysis is data collection, then trying to think about modeling - possibly using some kind of agent based approach.

3) Economic models. I've also noticed that there's quite a bit of polymarket speculation. Can whole system models be useful for placing market bets in systems like polymarket? It's not always obvious how even a good model of the future relates where to place bets. But it is an interesting thesis to explore and could help fund my primary interests.
